So with that, that is kind of all
of the parts of Tailwind that
I have in the two or
three years that I've been using it,
are the ones that stuck with me of,
those are the kind of most important ones.
Now, you should definitely go take a look
in the docs because there's a lot more
things that some of them may be very
unique to what you're doing and
stuff along those lines, and
you can try all those things out.
But I think that for the most part,
having a lot of those variants and
a lot of being able to kind of just
know the state of a lot of the forms and
being able to have styles that rely
on the state of other DOM nodes and
the container queries and
all of those pieces.
And especially, I think the responsive
variants are also, again,
worth the cost of entry, because it
has made doing all that stuff so
incredibly fast that the productivity
gains, I think, on my end,
at least, in my experience,
have been absolutely and totally worth it.
And I hope that you feel the same way as
you kinda get comfortable with it as well,
and maybe you'll find different parts
that are the most useful for you.
But these have been the parts that over
and over and over and over and over and
over again, I find myself on a daily
basis to the point where they, at first,
even if some of those utility
classes look a little squirrelly,
you get the muscle memory
at a certain point.
And then all of a sudden you're
whipping out a design in a day,
and it's like this isn't even real.
And now everyone thinks I'm
really good at what I do.
It's just I have good tools and
it makes it easy.
>> Let's start with,
is there any special considerations
when building for production?
>> So at the end of the day, it spits out.
The nice part about that PurgeCSS
piece is it's scanning those files
based on this content and putting
together only the styles that I'm using.
Which is why they don't
want you to use apply,
cuz then those words are in your codebase,
whether or not you use the style.
If you wanna use an applier,
too, and make some components,
know that you're opting out of some
of the performance optimizations.
But if it makes it more practical,
go for it, you have my permission.
You don't have the official Tailwind
permission, you have my permission.
But for production,
it'll spit out the JavaScript files, and
then if it is useful, you could see
in the playgrounds where it shows
you the JavaScript that
would have spit out.
At that point also,
it's going to run through PostCSS,
which I use Svelte and SvelteKit.
And even our React apps, we use Vite,
which also has built-in PostCSS support,
which is then also gonna minify,
we use cssnano as a PostCSS plugin.
So Tailwind goes through,
scans my entire codebase,
sees what class I'm actually using,
only includes those.
Those then get sent into PostCSS with
no work on my part, it just happens,
and get minified down to the bare minimum.
Or if I want to add vendor prefixes,
which I don't need to,
cuz I have the metrics
of what browsers we use,
which as somebody who works on a
developer-facing product, it's 99% Chrome.
And I can also skip a lot of
the vendor prefixes because I'm
dealing with people who have Monarch.
If I worked in a different industry,
I would not maybe be able to do that.
But the fact that it is running
through PostCSS means you're getting
the production build basically for free.
>> Are there any tools in the Tailwind
ecosystem that you use in your workflow
around larger projects, for example,
shadcn/ui, daisyUI, Flowbite, etc?
>> So I don't.
However, I will say,
Flowbite's documentation is just good for
learning how to do stuff in Tailwind,
right?
There's one or two things where
there's a special little bit of
JavaScript part on their end,
but Flowbite's like docs.
If you wanna do that thing where
the Submit button looks like it's part of
the input field and the borders are all
there, you just type that in, and
they've got a documentation and
an example, right?
The stuff like a date picker or
some of the other stuff,
you do need their full-on library.
But a lot of this I don't personally cuz
our designers have their own very specific
design language, and we have a full-on
team, so we actually have our own.
But I've looked at all those,
and they look great.
And do I regularly, let's just say,
get inspiration from them?
Absolutely.
>> We have a user who just finished
watching Figma for Developers.
And is wondering if you have
any tips on building a custom
designed system with Tailwind CSS or
kind of with the Figma workflow there.
>> Give me six months.
So right now we are, like I said before,
one of the nice parts about having all
the utility classes is that we could do
the audit to figure out
what colors are where.
So we have a designer,
Ash, who is using Figma.
So Figma has this new idea
of variables in Figma, so
like the colors are weirdly called bg-red.
We are only gonna do light, medium, and
dark, we're not gonna do the full 900.
But we are literally in the process of,
in Figma,
mapping all the design tokens and
variables to Tailwind classes,
that literally what I was doing,
what day of the week is it?
Whatever day of work
before I flew out here,
I was literally working from Figma's API
trying to generate the Tailwind styles
directly from a designer's designs
to generate the design system.
So at this moment, I do not.
Give me a month or two and I will.
>> What's the Tailwind
alternative to using calc?
For example, height: calc(100vh- 70px).
>> That's a good question.
I have a suspicion that it's
easier than we all think it is.
This could go poorly, but why not?
So my suspicion it's probably as easy as,
So if I did something like class, and
let's say we wanted height, for instance,
and we wanted it to be, Calc,
and let's say, what,
100 view height, minus-
>> Like 70 pixels.
>> 70 pixels.
That's it.
[LAUGH] You can see, as I hover over,
height: calc(100vh- 70px).
You can just do the arbitrary
values in there, and it just works.
>> Do you have any tips for handling
scrolling panels within a grid container?
>> Yes.
>> For example,
if you're looking to build a full
screen app similar to Slack.
>> So there is a bunch of scroll snap
stuff kinda built-in, and check this out.
You can actually have the snap point,
and then there's one where
you can actually set it to mandatory,
and it goes back.
And then if you go enough,
it'll actually kinda scroll.
And this is a Flexbox,
I have to believe, not a grid per se,
although that might just be wrong,
but you can actually,
there's a bunch of utilities in here for
exactly.
I almost like wanted to do the slideshow
piece before I decided that I was gonna do
everything in the browser anyway.
Like this as well and kinda build a little
slide out because you can do that in here,
and there's a bunch of utility classes.
And scroll behavior, you get overflow, all
those things you can kind of do all those,
but the scroll snap,
I think it's super cool as well.
>> How do you incorporate CSS variables?
>> I can define them or
whatever, but you saw a lot of
the classes that were getting
used had CSS variables.
But you can literally do the dash
dash syntax in one of those arbitrary
square brackets.
Is there a easy?
Yeah, so let's say you had
them in one of the layers.
So there's the classic root thing as well.
You can literally either put them in
the theme as something you pull in, so
that they're just utility classes you can
use that are based on the variables that
already existed.
Or I believe you can do the arbitrary
value thing and just inline them as well.
Also in my case, Svelte lets me literally
put dash dash whatever in there, and
put them in directly as well.
So I have that at my disposal.
Yeah, there's some bonus content
of the stuff where I'm like,
I don't wanna go until 7 tonight.
[LAUGH] That is there as well that
you can kinda take a look at,
but again, there is a lot.
Cmd+K on the Tailwind Docs is your friend.
You can kinda search and find stuff.
And yes, you should.
The only person I think to ever
read it from start to finish is me,
mostly cuz I was gonna teach
a six-hour workshop on it.
I felt like that was
the responsible thing to do.
But it's kinda useful if you're
just kinda popping in and
finding the pieces that you need.
But again, that container query
plugin is my heart and soul, and
one of my favorite things.
I would definitely highly
recommend that as well.
And I'm trying to think if there's
anything in here that's just fun.
The transitions and the animations and
transforms are always fun,
even though everyone
hates me when I use them.
That's their problem, not my problem.
>> All right, thanks to you.
>> Thank you.
>> [APPLAUSE]